README.md, before:

# satellite-coverage-tracker
***
COP3530 Data Structures &amp; Algorithm - Project 3

**Group Name:** The Orbital Police

**Group Members:** Kamarii Austin, Ryan McGlinn, Brandon Rosenthal

# Start Here
***

# Class Documentation
***
The following section provides a summary of each custom class used in the project

## SatelliteCoverageTracker
***
This is the main class for this project and is used to run the process.

```mermaid
classDiagram
class SatelliteCoverageTracker {
    SatelliteCoverageTracker(pathToData, dateTime, location)
}
```

### Construction
- `SatelliteCoverageTracker()` - A constructor which takes in the path to the data directory, a date time to test for observations, and a location to filter the observations

## SatelliteCatalog
***
This class helps manage satellite catalog information so a satellite catalog number from a TLE observation can be correlated.

```mermaid
classDiagram
class SatelliteCatalog {
    SatelliteCatalog(dataDirectory)
    getCatalogEntry(catNum) const CatalogEntry&
    count() int
}
class RCS_Size {
    <<enum>>
    unknown
    small
    medium
    large
}
class CatalogEntry {
    <<struct>>
    objectID
    objectName
    catalogNumber
    country
    period
    inclination
    apogee
    perigee
    recSize
    rcsValue
    comment
    launchDate
}
```

### Structs
- `CatalogEntry` - A public struct that contains attributes associated with a catalog entry 

### Enums
- `RCS_Size` - An emum that is used to define the radar cross-section for the satellite

### Construction
- `SatelliteCatalog()` - a constructor that takes in the path to the data directory where the catalog CSV can be found

### Accessors
- `getCatalogEntry` - returns a reference to a `CatalogEntry` for a given satellite catalog number
- `count()` - returns the count of catalog entries in the catalog

## TLEParser Class
***
This is a class which wraps certain methods exposed by the libsgp4 library to parse and get the geodetic location for a two line element

```mermaid
classDiagram
class TLEParser {
    parse(tleString)$ Tle
    parse(line1, line2)$ Tle
    parse(line1, line2, line3)$ Tle
    getCoordGeodetic(tle)$ CoordGeodetic
    getCoordGeodetic(line1, line2)$ CoordGeodetic
    getCoordGeodetic(line1, line2, line3)$ CoordGeodetic
}
```

### Static Methods
- `parse(tleString)` - Takes in a string that contains newline characters to separate the three lines and returns a `Tle` object
- `parse(line1, line2)` - Takes in two strings representing the primary data lines (omitting the optional name line) and returns a `Tle` object
- `parse(line1, line2, line3)` - Takes in three strings representing a line that contains the name and the two primary data lines and returns a `Tle` object
- `getCoordGeodetic(tle)` - Takes in a `Tle` object and returns a `CoordGeodetic` object representing the position of the object at the time of observation
- `getCoordGeodetic(line1, line2)` - Takes in two strings representing the primary data lines and omits the optional name line and returns a `CoordGeodetic` object representing the position of the object at the time of observation
- `getCoordGeodetic(line1, line2, line2)`- Takes in three strings representing the name and the two primary data lines and returns a `CoordGeodetic` object representing the position of the object at the time of observation

## Data Ingestion
Feature uses  `TLEParser` and `SatelliteCoverageTracker` classes to load and process satellite data from TLE files.

### Usage
1. Place your TLE files in the `data/` directory.
2. Run the main program to parse and ingest the TLE data.

## DataModel Class
***
This is a template class which both the LinearModel and GraphModel classes inherit from.

```mermaid
classDiagram
class DateModel {
    DataModel(directory)
    import()*
    insert(tle)*
    search(position, radius)* unordered_set<int>
}
```

### Construction
- `DataModel(directory)` - a constructor that takes in a path to the directory where the data files are located

### Pure Virtual Functions
- `import()` - performs the data import process
- `insert(tle)` - takes in a reference to a `Tle` object and inserts it into the data structure
- `search(position, radius)` - takes in a position and a radius used to perform the search for matching data points

## GraphModel Class
***
A class that represents Tle observations in a Graph data structure and supports a method to search for observations that passed over a given position within a radius of that position

```mermaid
classDiagram
class GraphModel {
    GraphModel(directory, sepThresh)
    import()
    insert(tle)
    search(position, radius) unordered_set<int>
    testFindClosestWaypoint(dataDirectory, wpSepThresh, pos, refWaypoint)$ bool
    testFindClosestWaypoint(dataDirectory, wpSepThresh, pos, waypoints, refWaypoint)$ bool
    testInsert(dataDirectory, wpSepThresh, tle, refVertex)$ bool
    testFilterEdges(edges, maxWeight, refEdges)$ bool
    testSearch(dataDirectory, wpSepThresh, observations, pos, radius)$ unordered_set<int>
}
class Vertex {
    index int
    isWaypoint bool
    position CoordGeodetic
    operator==(rhs)
}
class Edge {
    index int
    weight double
}
```

### Structs
- `Vertex` - A public struct that represent a node or vertex in the graph
- `Edge` - A public struct that represents a connection between vertices in the graph

### Construction
- `GraphModel(directory, sepThresh)` - constructor that takes in a path to the data directory and a waypoint separation threshold

### Mutators
- `import()` - Performs the import process for all .tle files found in the data directory
- `insert()` - Inserts a single data point into the data structure

### Accessors
- `search(position, radius)` - performs a search of the data structure to find datapoint that are in range relative to a position

### Static Tests
- `testFindClosestWaypoint()` - Takes in a position, checks the positions and inserts a waypoint because one does not exist, then compares the waypoint to a reference
- `testFindClosestWaypoint()` - Takes in a position and a vector of waypoints, and compares the closes waypoint to a reference waypoint
- `testInsert()` - Tests inserting a two line element into the Graph and compares the Vertex that was generated to a reference vertex
- `testFilterEdges()` - Tests the `_filterByWeight()` function which filters a vector of edges to return the vertices index whose weight (distance) is below the max weight
- `testSearch()` - Tests the `search()` function which searches for observations that occurred within range of a position during the observation period

## LinearModel Class
***
```mermaid
classDiagram
class LinearModel {
    
}
```

### Construction

### Mutators

### Accessors

### Static Tests

## Utility Class
***
A utility class that contains some common helpfully functions that are used throughout the project

```mermaid
classDiagram
class Utility {
    double EARTH_RADIUS$
    getDistance(pos1, pos2)$ double
}
```

### Static Methods
- `getDistance(pos1, pos2)` - computes the haversine distance (in kilometers) between two geodetic coordinate positions

# Library Documentation
***
The following section describes external libraries that are used in this project

## libsgp4
This library is a C++ implementation of SGP4 (Simplified General Perturbations), which is a model that predicts the position of an object based on an initial observation. We make use of the following classes to convert two-line element (TLE) data to determine the position of an object when it was observed:

- `SGP4`
- `CoordGeodetic`
- `Tle`
- `Eci`
- `DateTime`

### SGP4 Class
This is the main class for the library which utilizes the SGP model to determine and predict the position of objects based on an orbital observation.

```mermaid
classDiagram
class SGP4 {
    SGP4(tle) void
    SetTle(tle) void
    FindPosition(tsince) Eci
    FindPosition(date) Eci
}
```
- `SGP4()` - Constructor, initializes the model with to a specific observation with the TLE passed to the constructor
- `SetTle()` - Updates the model to use a new observation based on the TLE passed to the func
- `FindPosition(tsince)` - Finds the position relative to a time since the TLE observation
- `FindPosition(date)` - Finds the position relative to a DateTime object passed to the function

### CoordGeodetic Class
This class represents a geodetic coordinate position in space based on a longitude, latitude and altitude.

```mermaid
classDiagram
class CoordGeodetic {
    CoordGeodetic()
    CoordGeodetic(lat, lon, alt, is_radians)
    CoordGeodetic(geo)
    operator=(geo) CoordGeodetic&
    operator==(rhs) bool
    operator"<<"(strm, g) ostream&
    ToString() string
    latitude
    longitude
    altitude
}
```
- `CoordGeodetic()` - Default constructor
- `CoordGeodetic(lat, long, alt, is_radians)` - Constructor to create a `CoordGeodetic` object from latitude, longitude, altitude and if the latitude/longitude are in degrees or radians
- `CoordGeodetic(geo)` - Constructor to create a `CoordGeodetic` object from another `CoordGeodetic` object
- `operator=(geo)` - Assignment operator
- `operator==(rhs)` - Equality operator that returns true if the latitude, longitude and altitude are identical
- `operator<<(strm, g)` - Insertion operator overload that outputs a formatted string
- `ToString()` - Returns a string containing the latitude, longitude and altitude that is meant to be displayed

### Tle Class
This class takes in TLE data and splits it into it's components do it can be used by other processes.

```mermaid
classDiagram
class Tle {
    Tle(line_one, line_two)
    Tle(name, line_one, line_two)
    Tle(tle)
    Name() string
    Line1() string
    Line2() string
    NoradNumber() unsigned int
    IntDesignator() string
    Epoch() DateTime
    MeanMotionDt2() double
    MeanMotionDdt6() double
    BStar() double
    Inclination(in_degrees) double
    Eccentricity() double
    ArgumentPerigee(in_degrees) double
    MeanAnomaly(in_degrees) double
    MeanMotion() double
    ToString() string
    LineLength()$ unsigned int
}
```


### Eci Class
This class represents an Earth-centered inertial position for a particular time

```mermaid
classDiagram
class Eci {
    Eci(dt, latitude, longitude, altitude)
    Eci(dt, geo)
    Eci(dt, position)
    Eci(dt, position, velocity)
    operator==(dt) bool
    operator!=(dt) bool
    Update(dt, geo)
    Position() Vector
    Velocity() Vector
    GetDateTime() DateTime
    ToGeodetic() CoordGeodetic
}
```

### DateTime Class
This class is used to represent the date and time in other classes in the SGP4 library

```mermaid
classDiagram
class DateTime {
    DateTime()
    DateTime(ticks)
    DateTime(year, day)
    DateTime(year, month, day)
    DateTime(year, month, day, hout, minute, second)
    DateTime(year, month, day, hout, minute, second, microsecond)
    Initalise(year, month, day, hout, minute, second, microsecond)
    Now(useMicroseconds)$ bool
    IsLeapYear(year)$ bool
    IsValidYear(year)$ bool
    IsValidYearMonthDay(year, month, day)$ bool
    DaysInMonth(year, month)$ int
    DayOfYear(year, month, day) int
    AbsoluteDays(year, day) double
    AbsoluteDays(year, month, day) double
    TimeOfDay() TimeSpan
    DayOfWeek() int
    Equals(dt) bool
    Compare(dt) int
    AddYears(years) DateTime
    AddMonths(months) DateTime
    Add(t) DateTime
    AddDays(days) DateTime
    AddHours(hours) DateTime
    AddMinutes(minutes) DateTime
    AddSeconds(seconds) DateTime
    AddMicroseconds(microseconds) DateTime
    AddTicks(ticks) DateTime
    Ticks() int64_t
    FromTicks(year, month, day)
    Year() int
    Month() int
    Day() int
    Hour() int
    Minute() int
    Second() int
    Microsecond() int
    ToJulian() double
    ToGreenwichSiderealTime() double
    ToJ2000() double
    ToLocalMeanSiderealTime(lon) double
    ToString() string
 }
```

Commit message:

feat: completes the implementation of the insert() method docs: updates README.md to document the public methods of the LinearModel class tests: adds test for the insert method

README.md, after:

# satellite-coverage-tracker
***
COP3530 Data Structures &amp; Algorithm - Project 3

**Group Name:** The Orbital Police

**Group Members:** Kamarii Austin, Ryan McGlinn, Brandon Rosenthal

# Start Here
***

# Class Documentation
***
The following section provides a summary of each custom class used in the project

## SatelliteCoverageTracker
***
This is the main class for this project and is used to run the process.

```mermaid
classDiagram
class SatelliteCoverageTracker {
    SatelliteCoverageTracker(pathToData, dateTime, location)
}
```

### Construction
- `SatelliteCoverageTracker()` - A constructor which takes in the path to the data directory, a date time to test for observations, and a location to filter the observations

## SatelliteCatalog
***
This class helps manage satellite catalog information so a satellite catalog number from a TLE observation can be correlated.

```mermaid
classDiagram
class SatelliteCatalog {
    SatelliteCatalog(dataDirectory)
    getCatalogEntry(catNum) const CatalogEntry&
    count() int
}
class RCS_Size {
    <<enum>>
    unknown
    small
    medium
    large
}
class CatalogEntry {
    <<struct>>
    objectID
    objectName
    catalogNumber
    country
    period
    inclination
    apogee
    perigee
    recSize
    rcsValue
    comment
    launchDate
}
```

### Structs
- `CatalogEntry` - A public struct that contains attributes associated with a catalog entry 

### Enums
- `RCS_Size` - An emum that is used to define the radar cross-section for the satellite

### Construction
- `SatelliteCatalog()` - a constructor that takes in the path to the data directory where the catalog CSV can be found

### Accessors
- `getCatalogEntry` - returns a reference to a `CatalogEntry` for a given satellite catalog number
- `count()` - returns the count of catalog entries in the catalog

## TLEParser Class
***
This is a class which wraps certain methods exposed by the libsgp4 library to parse and get the geodetic location for a two line element

```mermaid
classDiagram
class TLEParser {
    parse(tleString)$ Tle
    parse(line1, line2)$ Tle
    parse(line1, line2, line3)$ Tle
    getCoordGeodetic(tle)$ CoordGeodetic
    getCoordGeodetic(line1, line2)$ CoordGeodetic
    getCoordGeodetic(line1, line2, line3)$ CoordGeodetic
}
```

### Static Methods
- `parse(tleString)` - Takes in a string that contains newline characters to separate the three lines and returns a `Tle` object
- `parse(line1, line2)` - Takes in two strings representing the primary data lines (omitting the optional name line) and returns a `Tle` object
- `parse(line1, line2, line3)` - Takes in three strings representing a line that contains the name and the two primary data lines and returns a `Tle` object
- `getCoordGeodetic(tle)` - Takes in a `Tle` object and returns a `CoordGeodetic` object representing the position of the object at the time of observation
- `getCoordGeodetic(line1, line2)` - Takes in two strings representing the primary data lines and omits the optional name line and returns a `CoordGeodetic` object representing the position of the object at the time of observation
- `getCoordGeodetic(line1, line2, line2)`- Takes in three strings representing the name and the two primary data lines and returns a `CoordGeodetic` object representing the position of the object at the time of observation

## Data Ingestion
Feature uses  `TLEParser` and `SatelliteCoverageTracker` classes to load and process satellite data from TLE files.

### Usage
1. Place your TLE files in the `data/` directory.
2. Run the main program to parse and ingest the TLE data.

## DataModel Class
***
This is a template class which both the LinearModel and GraphModel classes inherit from.

```mermaid
classDiagram
class DateModel {
    DataModel(directory)
    import()*
    insert(tle)*
    search(position, radius)* unordered_set<int>
}
```

### Construction
- `DataModel(directory)` - a constructor that takes in a path to the directory where the data files are located

### Pure Virtual Functions
- `import()` - performs the data import process
- `insert(tle)` - takes in a reference to a `Tle` object and inserts it into the data structure
- `search(position, radius)` - takes in a position and a radius used to perform the search for matching data points

## GraphModel Class
***
A class that represents Tle observations in a Graph data structure and supports a method to search for observations that passed over a given position within a radius of that position

```mermaid
classDiagram
class GraphModel {
    GraphModel(directory, sepThresh)
    import()
    insert(tle)
    search(position, radius) unordered_set<int>
    testFindClosestWaypoint(dataDirectory, wpSepThresh, pos, refWaypoint)$ bool
    testFindClosestWaypoint(dataDirectory, wpSepThresh, pos, waypoints, refWaypoint)$ bool
    testInsert(dataDirectory, wpSepThresh, tle, refVertex)$ bool
    testFilterEdges(edges, maxWeight, refEdges)$ bool
    testSearch(dataDirectory, wpSepThresh, observations, pos, radius)$ unordered_set<int>
}
class Vertex {
    index int
    isWaypoint bool
    position CoordGeodetic
    operator==(rhs)
}
class Edge {
    index int
    weight double
}
```

### Structs
- `Vertex` - A public struct that represent a node or vertex in the graph
- `Edge` - A public struct that represents a connection between vertices in the graph

### Construction
- `GraphModel(directory, sepThresh)` - constructor that takes in a path to the data directory and a waypoint separation threshold

### Mutators
- `import()` - Performs the import process for all .tle files found in the data directory
- `insert()` - Inserts a single data point into the data structure

### Accessors
- `search(position, radius)` - performs a search of the data structure to find datapoint that are in range relative to a position

### Static Tests
- `testFindClosestWaypoint()` - Takes in a position, checks the positions and inserts a waypoint because one does not exist, then compares the waypoint to a reference
- `testFindClosestWaypoint()` - Takes in a position and a vector of waypoints, and compares the closes waypoint to a reference waypoint
- `testInsert()` - Tests inserting a two line element into the Graph and compares the Vertex that was generated to a reference vertex
- `testFilterEdges()` - Tests the `_filterByWeight()` function which filters a vector of edges to return the vertices index whose weight (distance) is below the max weight
- `testSearch()` - Tests the `search()` function which searches for observations that occurred within range of a position during the observation period

## LinearModel Class
***
A class that represents TLE observations in a simple map structure. It supports the public methods outlined in the DataModel class.

```mermaid
classDiagram
class LinearModel {
    LinearModel(dataDirectory)
    import()
    insert(tle)
    search(position, radius) unordered_set<int>
}
```

### Construction
- `LinearModel()` - A constructor that takes in a string representing the path to the data directory

### Mutators
- `import()` - Inserts all the observations found in all the .tle files in the data directory
- `insert(tle)` - Inserts an observation into the data structure

### Accessors
- `search(position, radius)` - Returns observations that were within the radius of a given position at the time of observation

### Static Tests

## Utility Class
***
A utility class that contains some common helpfully functions that are used throughout the project

```mermaid
classDiagram
class Utility {
    double EARTH_RADIUS$
    getDistance(pos1, pos2)$ double
}
```

### Static Methods
- `getDistance(pos1, pos2)` - computes the haversine distance (in kilometers) between two geodetic coordinate positions

# Library Documentation
***
The following section describes external libraries that are used in this project

## libsgp4
This library is a C++ implementation of SGP4 (Simplified General Perturbations), which is a model that predicts the position of an object based on an initial observation. We make use of the following classes to convert two-line element (TLE) data to determine the position of an object when it was observed:

- `SGP4`
- `CoordGeodetic`
- `Tle`
- `Eci`
- `DateTime`

### SGP4 Class
This is the main class for the library which utilizes the SGP model to determine and predict the position of objects based on an orbital observation.

```mermaid
classDiagram
class SGP4 {
    SGP4(tle) void
    SetTle(tle) void
    FindPosition(tsince) Eci
    FindPosition(date) Eci
}
```
- `SGP4()` - Constructor, initializes the model with to a specific observation with the TLE passed to the constructor
- `SetTle()` - Updates the model to use a new observation based on the TLE passed to the func
- `FindPosition(tsince)` - Finds the position relative to a time since the TLE observation
- `FindPosition(date)` - Finds the position relative to a DateTime object passed to the function

### CoordGeodetic Class
This class represents a geodetic coordinate position in space based on a longitude, latitude and altitude.

```mermaid
classDiagram
class CoordGeodetic {
    CoordGeodetic()
    CoordGeodetic(lat, lon, alt, is_radians)
    CoordGeodetic(geo)
    operator=(geo) CoordGeodetic&
    operator==(rhs) bool
    operator"<<"(strm, g) ostream&
    ToString() string
    latitude
    longitude
    altitude
}
```
- `CoordGeodetic()` - Default constructor
- `CoordGeodetic(lat, long, alt, is_radians)` - Constructor to create a `CoordGeodetic` object from latitude, longitude, altitude and if the latitude/longitude are in degrees or radians
- `CoordGeodetic(geo)` - Constructor to create a `CoordGeodetic` object from another `CoordGeodetic` object
- `operator=(geo)` - Assignment operator
- `operator==(rhs)` - Equality operator that returns true if the latitude, longitude and altitude are identical
- `operator<<(strm, g)` - Insertion operator overload that outputs a formatted string
- `ToString()` - Returns a string containing the latitude, longitude and altitude that is meant to be displayed

### Tle Class
This class takes in TLE data and splits it into it's components do it can be used by other processes.

```mermaid
classDiagram
class Tle {
    Tle(line_one, line_two)
    Tle(name, line_one, line_two)
    Tle(tle)
    Name() string
    Line1() string
    Line2() string
    NoradNumber() unsigned int
    IntDesignator() string
    Epoch() DateTime
    MeanMotionDt2() double
    MeanMotionDdt6() double
    BStar() double
    Inclination(in_degrees) double
    Eccentricity() double
    ArgumentPerigee(in_degrees) double
    MeanAnomaly(in_degrees) double
    MeanMotion() double
    ToString() string
    LineLength()$ unsigned int
}
```


### Eci Class
This class represents an Earth-centered inertial position for a particular time

```mermaid
classDiagram
class Eci {
    Eci(dt, latitude, longitude, altitude)
    Eci(dt, geo)
    Eci(dt, position)
    Eci(dt, position, velocity)
    operator==(dt) bool
    operator!=(dt) bool
    Update(dt, geo)
    Position() Vector
    Velocity() Vector
    GetDateTime() DateTime
    ToGeodetic() CoordGeodetic
}
```

### DateTime Class
This class is used to represent the date and time in other classes in the SGP4 library

```mermaid
classDiagram
class DateTime {
    DateTime()
    DateTime(ticks)
    DateTime(year, day)
    DateTime(year, month, day)
    DateTime(year, month, day, hout, minute, second)
    DateTime(year, month, day, hout, minute, second, microsecond)
    Initalise(year, month, day, hout, minute, second, microsecond)
    Now(useMicroseconds)$ bool
    IsLeapYear(year)$ bool
    IsValidYear(year)$ bool
    IsValidYearMonthDay(year, month, day)$ bool
    DaysInMonth(year, month)$ int
    DayOfYear(year, month, day) int
    AbsoluteDays(year, day) double
    AbsoluteDays(year, month, day) double
    TimeOfDay() TimeSpan
    DayOfWeek() int
    Equals(dt) bool
    Compare(dt) int
    AddYears(years) DateTime
    AddMonths(months) DateTime
    Add(t) DateTime
    AddDays(days) DateTime
    AddHours(hours) DateTime
    AddMinutes(minutes) DateTime
    AddSeconds(seconds) DateTime
    AddMicroseconds(microseconds) DateTime
    AddTicks(ticks) DateTime
    Ticks() int64_t
    FromTicks(year, month, day)
    Year() int
    Month() int
    Day() int
    Hour() int
    Minute() int
    Second() int
    Microsecond() int
    ToJulian() double
    ToGreenwichSiderealTime() double
    ToJ2000() double
    ToLocalMeanSiderealTime(lon) double
    ToString() string
 }
```
